# SimplyOutput

**SimplyOutput** is a lightweight utility tool for structural engineers in extracting output files generated by structural analysis softwares, into simple flat table format in excel format. Making the output easier for the engineers to further process it (e.g., sort, pivot, finding max min, grouping, even putting it neatly in the report). Mainly used to accompany structural analysis software such as Bentley's SACS and DNV's SESAM packages. 

Some of the key features are:

* **Easy to Use**: Simply command line interface (CLI). Can be written as a batch file, and tied to the structural analysis run stream. 
* **Flat Table**: Everything is converted into excel flat table. No empty lines. Easy to do things like lookup, pivot table and also works well with excel's power query. 

## Built From
**SimplyOutput** is built using Python with some excelent libraries available:

* Typer , packaging the commands into CLI application
* XlsxWriter, writing the extracted info into excel file


## Installation

No installation required, simply unzip the exe file into your preferred location. Then there are two ways to call it:

* Best is to add the location of where you put the exe file into your User/System PATH Environmental variable. This will make **SimplyOutput** can be called from anywhere, without having to put the full path of where you put it.

    ```batch
    simplyoutput 
    ```
* Or if you don't have access to your windows PATH Environmental variable, you can just simply call it using its full location path

    ```batch
    C:\where\you\put\it\simplyoutput 
    ```

## How to Use

There are two ways to use it:

* Simply calling it. It will prompt you to put the command that you want to do. To get the list of available commands you can do as below:

    ```batch
    simplyoutput --help
    ```
    This will list all the available commands. Using '--help' also can be added after each available command to see more detail on what is the command about and what it requires. 
    For example, you want to extract pile head forces from SESAM's SPLICE
    ```batch
    simplyoutput splice-getforcedisp --help
    ```
    and it will show
    ```batch
    Usage: simplyoutput splice-getforcedisp [OPTIONS] SPLICEOUTPUTNAME SELECTION EXCELNAME
    
    Pile Head force / disp. from SPLICE.LIS to Excel file

    Arguments:
    SPLICEOUTPUTNAME  File name to read including extension  [required]
    SELECTION         "d" for displacement "f" for pile head force  [required]
    EXCELNAME         Excel file name, including the extension  [required]

    Options:
    --lookupcol TEXT  Column numbers to create lookup id, 0 is the first column,
                    must be defined inside quotes " "
    --help            Show this message and exit.
    ```
    For this example, to extract the pile head force, you have to provides minimum 3 arguments: the splice file name (SPLICEOUTPUTNAME), (SELECTION) and the excel name (EXCELNAME). Therefore:
    ```batch
    simplyoutput splice-getforcedisp SPLICE.LIS f PileHeadForce.xlsx
    ```

* Second way is to create batch file. Especially if you already know what to do, and know what command to use. Just create a text file containing the command above and save it as `.bat` file. 

The later is very convenient to use, you can just double click the batch file when you need to run it again. 

## List of Supported Output Files
Below are the supported output files than can be extracted using **simplyoutput**:

### DNV's SESAM

* `genie-getmemberforce` Member forces from GeniE text2 output.
* `genie-getnodedisplacement` Node displacement from GeniE text2 output.
* `genie-getreaction` Support reaction from GeniE text2 output.
* `sestra8-loadsum` Load summary from SESTRA 8 output file. 
* `sestra10-loadsum` Load summary from SESTRA 10 output file. 
* `splice-getforcedisp` Pile head force and displacement from SPILCE output file. 
* `framework-getmemcodecheck` Framework's ISO member check FULL print. 
* `framework-getmemcheck360` Framework's AISC 360 member check FULL Print.
* `framework-getconecheckapi` Framework's API cone check FULL print.
* `framework-getfatresjoint` Framework's joint fatigue result. 
* `framework-getjointcheckiso` Framework's ISO joint check FULL print. 
* `wajac-maxbsotm` Wajac's baseshear and overturning moment.

### Bentlet's SACS

* `sacslst-getloadsum` Load summary from SACS list file. 
* `sacslst-getmemcodecheck` Member code check results from SACS list file. 
* `jcnlst-getjointcheck` Joint check results from SACS list file. 
* `psilst-getpileheadforce` Pile head force from SACS list file. 
* `precede-getjointdisp` Joint displacement from PRECEDE output. 
* `precede-getmemendforce` Member end force from PRECEDE output. 


